IAM:
	Identity and Access Management
		To log in to a server/web console/access an API
		Identity: Who are using
		Access: What can u do
		Managemenet: Administration of
		
			Federated identity
			Fine-grained permissions
			Multi-factor authentication
			
				Its FREE and GLOBAL
				Replicated Worliwide
				
				IAM Components:
					Users :Has a name, Its an entity, but not always have to be a person
						Access Types:
							Programmatic Access: Aces Key with Secret Access Key			
							AWS Management Console
							Have a Policy to accatched
							
					Groups: Collection of users, with a name what can be changed, but not recommended due to static references.
						Users
						Have a Policy to attached
						
						Egy ember több csoportba is tartozhat. 
						
						Egy ember nem muszáj h egy csoportba is tartozzon akár. 
							Egy emberhez is lehet directben dediálni policy-t, ez az "inline policy"
							
						Egy csoportba csak emberek tartozhatnak, más csoportok nem. 
						
						Ha egy user több gropuba is tartozik, akkor ugyanazon resourcehoz a megengedőbb jogot fogja kapni.
						Csoportokhoz és emberekhez egyaránt lehet policy-ket kötni.
				
					Roles:Set of permissions (Ezek nem csak embereknek[User], hanem AWS resource-oknak(EC2), service(Lambda)-eknek is adhatók)
					
					Policies: Set of permissions
						Effect: Permit or deny
						Action: What to do
						Resource
						Condition
						
					Identity providers: To integrate external identity database
		
						Can be created by:
							Copy of AWS policy
							Policy Wizard
							Self-defined
							
						IAM can be accessed via
							AWS Management Console
							AWS CLI: Az AWS API-val beszélget. 
								Utasítások anatomiája: aws s3 cp rainbow.png s3://abucket/images
									aws
									s3: service
									cp: subcommand							
									
										
							AWS SDKs: set of language specific libraries(API-s)
							IAM HTTP API					
				
		Policy  (-set of permissions):
		
			Hozzárendelhető:
				IAM Userhez direktbe (inline)
				User Group-hoz
				IAM Role-hoz
			
			JSON 
			
			részei:
				Version
				Id (optional) -identifier of the policy
				Statement
					Sid- Statement id
					Effect: Allow/Deny
					Principal: [Kik számára]
					Action: A metódusok, amikre az Effect hat: s3:GetObject, s3:PutObject
					Resource: Amilyen erőforrásra vontakozik: Itt s3
					Conditon(optional)-if feltétel: mikor legyen maga ez az egész vonatkozás igaz.
					
					
			Trust policy - define which principal entities (accounts, users, roles, and federated users) can assume the role. 
			An IAM role is both an identity and a resource that supports resource-based policies. For this reason, you must attach both a trust policy and an identity-based policy to an IAM role.
			The IAM service supports only one type of resource-based policy called a role trust policy, which is attached to an IAM role.

			Access control list (ACL) - are service policies that allow you to control which principals in another account can access a resource. 
			ACLs cannot be used to control access for a principal within the same account. Amazon S3, AWS WAF, and Amazon VPC are examples of services that support ACLs.	
			
			s	
	MFA: Multi Factor Authentication:
		Via 
			Virtual MFA device:
				Google Authenticator(phone only)
				Authy(multi device)
			Hardware Key 
				Universal 2nd Factor(U2F) Security key
					YubiKey(3rd party)	
				Gemalto
				AWS GovCloud							
							
	To identify who is using your application, you can use either a user or a role.
	When creating a user, you can assign long-term credentials; in contrast, a Role does not have any credentials assigned to it but can be used to retrieve temporary credentials. 
	A Role essentially allows you to temporarily delegate access to users and systems that would otherwise not have access to the AWS services. 

	IAM Security Tools:
		IAM Credential Report:(account lvl)
			Kilistázza az accountom alatt lévő userek státuszát és különböző credential-jait.
		IAM Acces Advisior:(user lvl):
			Adott userek számára milyen service jogok lettek kiosztva és azok a servicek mikor kerültek használatra.	
			Könnyen meg lehet találni a nem jól testre szabott permissionöket.	
			
	Magának a root user-ben kell engedélyezni h adhassunk ki más usereknek jogot a Billing & Cost Dashboard-hoz:
		Alapból az IAM usereknek nincs hozzáférésük a Billing and Cost Management console-hoz.
		Ezért egy IAM policy-t kell rendelni az adott userhez. 
		És ezután el kell fogadnia magának a usernek is as policyt:
			 Under “IAM User and Role Access to Billing Information”, click “Edit”, check the box to “Activate IAM Access”, and then click “Update”. 	
	
	
IAM Access Analyzer: 
	helps you identify the resources in your organization and accounts, such as Amazon S3 buckets or IAM roles, that are shared with an external entity. 
	This lets you identify unintended access to your resources and data, which is a security risk.

	You can set the scope for the analyzer to an organization or an AWS account. This is your zone of trust. The analyzer scans all of the supported resources within your zone of trust. 
	When Access Analyzer finds a policy that allows access to a resource from outside of your zone of trust, it generates an active finding.
	

Access Advisor feature on IAM console - To help identify the unused roles, IAM reports the last-used timestamp that represents when a role was last used to make an AWS request. 
	Your security team can use this information to identify, analyze, and then confidently remove unused roles. 
	This helps improve the security posture of your AWS environments. This does not provide information about non-IAM entities such as S3.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
