AWS Serverless Application Repository (SAR) - The AWS Serverless Application Repository is a managed repository for serverless applications. 
It enables teams, organizations, and individual developers to store and share reusable applications, and easily assemble and deploy serverless architectures in powerful new ways. 
Using the Serverless Application Repository, you don't need to clone, build, package, or publish source code to AWS before deploying it. 
Instead, you can use pre-built applications from the Serverless Application Repository in your serverless architectures, 
helping you and your teams reduce duplicated work, ensure organizational best practices, and get to market faster. 
Integration with AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) provides resource-level control of each application, 
enabling you to publicly share applications with everyone or privately share them with specific AWS accounts.






AWS Marketplace - The AWS Marketplace enables qualified partners to market and sell their software to AWS Customers. AWS Marketplace is an online software store that helps customers find, buy, and immediately start using the software and services that run on AWS. AWS Marketplace is designed for Independent Software Vendors (ISVs), Value-Added Resellers (VARs), and Systems Integrators (SIs) who have software products they want to offer to customers in the cloud.

AWS AppSync - AWS AppSync is a fully managed service that makes it easy to develop GraphQL APIs by handling the heavy lifting of securely connecting to data sources like AWS DynamoDB, Lambda, and more. Organizations choose to build APIs with GraphQL because it helps them develop applications faster, by giving front-end developers the ability to query multiple databases, microservices, and APIs with a single GraphQL endpoint.

AWS Service Catalog - AWS Service Catalog allows organizations to create and manage catalogs of IT services that are approved for use on AWS. These IT services can include everything from virtual machine images, servers, software, and databases to complete multi-tier application architectures. AWS Service Catalog allows you to centrally manage deployed IT services and your applications, resources, and metadata. This helps you achieve consistent governance and meet your compliance requirements while enabling users to quickly deploy only the approved IT services they need.
