SSE-S3:

	Using Server-Side Encryption with Amazon S3-Managed Keys (SSE-S3), each object is encrypted with a unique key employing strong multi-factor encryption. 
	As an additional safeguard, it encrypts the key itself with a master key that it regularly rotates. 
	Amazon S3 server-side encryption uses one of the strongest block ciphers available, 256-bit Advanced Encryption Standard (AES-256), to encrypt your data.
	
	
	
	
SSE-C:
	You manage the encryption keys and Amazon S3 manages the encryption as it writes to disks and decryption when you access your objects.






Client-Side Encryption: 
	
	You can encrypt data client-side and upload the encrypted data to Amazon S3. In this case, you manage the encryption process, the encryption keys, and related tools.	
	
	
	
SSE-KMS: 

	Similar to SSE-S3 and also provides you with an audit trail of when your key was used and by whom. Additionally, you have the option to create and manage encryption keys yourself.	
	
	
	
Secret Manager:
		
	enables you to easily rotate, manage, and retrieve database credentials, API keys, and other secrets throughout their lifecycle. 
	Users and applications retrieve secrets with a call to Secrets Manager APIs, eliminating the need to hardcode sensitive information in plain text. 
	Secrets Manager offers secret rotation with built-in integration for Amazon RDS, Amazon Redshift, and Amazon DocumentDB.
	
	
SSM Parameter Store - AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store provides secure, hierarchical storage for configuration data management and secrets management. 
	You can store data such as passwords, database strings, and license codes as parameter values. SSM Parameter Store cannot be used to automatically rotate the database credentials.

Systems Manager - gives you visibility and control of your infrastructure on AWS. 
	Systems Manager provides a unified user interface so you can view operational data from multiple AWS services and allows you to automate operational tasks across your AWS resources. 
	Systems Manager cannot be used to store your secrets securely and automatically rotate the database credentials.

	KMS - AWS Key Management Service (KMS) makes it easy for you to create and manage cryptographic keys and control their use across a wide range of AWS services and in your applications. 
	KMS cannot be used to store your secrets securely and automatically rotate the database credentials.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
