Vpc:
	Virtual Private Cloud	
		Provides Isolated Environment 
		Region-hoz kötött.
		Egy logikai konstrukció.
			Subnetek tartoznak alá.
			Egy subnet az AZ(Data Center)-hoz kötött.
			Egy AZ-hoz több subnet is tartozhat.
		VPC is a virtual network that is dedicated to your account. 
		So you can't spread a VPC across multiple accounts, and it's yours to do with what you please, and that includes IP addressing. 
		If you have two VPCs in your account they 
		can talk to each other, but only once you establish that routing method to get data between them.
			
			Networking:
				Public and private addresses
				Preserved across reboots
				Multiple IPs can  be assigned to an instance
				Define and attach multiple network interfaces to one instance
				IPv6 support
				
			Security: (csak RULE-okat tartalmaz)
				Security Groups (Gyakorlatilag tűzfalak ki/be menetre)
				Vannak Inbound és Outbound Rule-ok
				PORTok elérhetőségét és IP tartományokat(IPv4, IPv6) ír le.
				ACL (Access-control list)
				Egy SecurityGroup több Instance hoz is tartozhat és egy Instance is tartozhat több security group alá. M:N 
				Reassign groups on the fly (Nem kell újra indítani az EC2-t)
				Assign groups to VPC and EC2 instances
				Ingress & egress filtering 
				Alapból minden bejövő forgalom blokkolt, minden kifelé menő engedélyezett
				Groupok egymásra is hivatkozhatnak h ki engedélyezett v tiltott
				
				Type	Protocol	Port Range	Source		Description 
				HTTP	TCP		80		0.0.0.0	java app
				SSH	...		22		122.149.168.85/32
				Custom..
		A VPC az Internet Gateway(IGW) segítségével megy ki (IGW csak VPC-hez csatolható)	
			Példák amiket be lehet tenni a VPC-be:
				AWS Data Pipeline
				EC2
				Elastic Beanstalk
				Elastic Load Balancing
				Elastic Cache
				WAS OpsWorks
				RDS 
				Redshift
				Workspaces
		
		NAT: Network Address Translation: ezen keresztül egy belső IP cím kétirányú kapcsolatot tud létrehozni egy ezen a Subneten kívüli hálózattal.	
			
		Elastic Ip: megmaradnak az IP-k ebben. Hozzá tudjuk csatolni akár instanceokhoz is, így amikor azok újraindulnak ugyanazt a fenntartott Elastic IP-t kapják. 
		Korlátozott Elastic Ip áll rendelkezésre.	

		Mihez csatlakozhat a VPC?
			Internet
			VPC Gateway IPSec(tunnel) - Hogy vállalkozáshoz csatlakozzon(Corporate Network)
			Direct Connect(?)
			
		//?Private subnetből úgy megyünk ki a netre, hogy rámutatunk egy NAT Instance-re, ami rámutat egy IGW-re. De mi ebben a táblában nem vagyunk benne mint fogadó fél.	
			
			
	• High Availability: Run instances for the same application across multi AZ
		• Auto Scaling Group multi AZ
		• Load Balancer multi AZ		
			
			
			
	VPC endpoint:
	
		VPC endpoints are virtual devices. 
		They are horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available Amazon VPC components that allow communication between instances in an Amazon VPC
		and services without imposing availability risks or bandwidth constraints on network traffic. 
		There are two types of VPC endpoints:

			‣ Interface endpoints:

			‣ Gateway endpoints:	
			
			
VPC Flow Logs:	
	is a feature that enables you to capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces.	
	VPC Flow Logs - VPC Flow Logs is a feature that enables you to capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your VPC. 
	Flow log data can be published to Amazon CloudWatch Logs or Amazon S3. After you've created a flow log, you can retrieve and view its data in the chosen destination.

	You can create a flow log for a VPC, a subnet, or a network interface. If you create a flow log for a subnet or VPC, each network interface in that subnet or VPC is monitored.

	Flow log data for a monitored network interface is recorded as flow log records, which are log events consisting of fields that describe the traffic flow.

	To create a flow log, you specify:

	The resource for which to create the flow log

	The type of traffic to capture (accepted traffic, rejected traffic, or all traffic)

	The destinations to which you want to publish the flow log data		
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
